.TH MFO 1 "2026-06-04" "mfo 0.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mfo \- manga/manhua OCR & context-aware translation pipeline
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mfo
[OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
mfo (Manhua Fanyi OCR) turns a folder of manga/manhua page images into translated, typeset pages. It runs a local-first, inspectable pipeline \- import, detect, OCR, reading order, dialogue grouping, context-aware translation, masking and rendering \- with an interactive review editor and full source-to-translation traceability. The core path is fully offline; cloud/LLM adapters are strictly opt-in.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B mfo assist [OPTIONS] PATH
Refine translations with the optional AI layer (opt-in; configured from MFO_AI_*/MFO_API_*).
.RS
.TP
.B --mode
AI mode (§12.4): 'assist' (suggest only), 'review' (highlight the AI candidate), or 'auto' (apply high-confidence suggestions). Never overwrites approved text.
.TP
.B --assistant
AI assistant adapter (MFO_AI_* / MFO_API_* env).
.TP
.B --min-confidence
Confidence an 'auto' suggestion must reach before it is applied.
.TP
.B --style
Translation register (FR-25).
.TP
.B --force
Re-run even if a current result is cached.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo bench [OPTIONS] PATH
Time the heavy pipeline stages at a given worker count (NFR-5/6/7).
.RS
.TP
.B --jobs, -j
Process this many pages concurrently (0 = auto/CPU count). Does not change results.
.TP
.B --stage
Benchmark only this stage.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo detect [OPTIONS] PATH
Detect text regions on imported pages.
.RS
.TP
.B --detector
Region detector: 'baseline', 'ml', 'paddle', or 'paddle-rec'.
.TP
.B --merge-overlap, --no-merge-overlap
Merge overlapping detected boxes into one region per bubble (on by default).
.TP
.B --overlap-frac
Overlap (fraction of the smaller box) at which two regions merge; lower = more.
.TP
.B --force
Re-detect even if a current result is cached.
.TP
.B --jobs, -j
Process this many pages concurrently (0 = auto/CPU count). Does not change results.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo export [OPTIONS] PATH
Export translated pages + the source→OCR→translation mapping (FR-43, MVP-9).
.RS
.TP
.B --out, -o
Output directory.
.TP
.B --mapping
Export the source→OCR→translation mapping as JSON (FR-43).
.TP
.B --jobs, -j
Process this many pages concurrently (0 = auto/CPU count). Does not change results.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo flag [OPTIONS] PATH
Mark low-confidence regions for review (only automatic ones — user edits win, I-3).
.RS
.TP
.B --threshold
Confidence below which a region is flagged.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo glossary add [OPTIONS] PATH SOURCE TARGET
Add or replace a glossary entry (matched by source term).
.RS
.TP
.B --alias
Variant target spelling to normalize (repeatable).
.TP
.B --note
Optional human note.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo glossary list PATH
List the project glossary entries.
.TP
.B mfo glossary promote PATH SOURCE
Promote a project glossary entry into the linked series store, shared across volumes.
.TP
.B mfo glossary remove PATH SOURCE
Remove a glossary entry by its source term.
.TP
.B mfo glossary series export PATH OUT
Export the linked series glossary to a file for team sharing (lossless; SG-2).
.TP
.B mfo glossary series import [OPTIONS] PATH SRC
Import a shared series glossary into the linked store (merge by default; SG-2).
.RS
.TP
.B --replace
Replace the linked store instead of merging into it.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo glossary series link PATH STORE_PATH
Link this project to a shared series-glossary store so its volumes inherit terms (SG-2).
.TP
.B mfo glossary series list PATH
List the linked series-glossary entries.
.TP
.B mfo glossary series remove PATH SOURCE
Remove an entry from the linked series glossary by its source term.
.TP
.B mfo group [OPTIONS] PATH
Group ordered regions into units (offline; one unit per bubble by default — FR-19).
.RS
.TP
.B --max-gap
Chain same-type regions within this fraction of their mean height into one unit. 0 (default) = one unit per bubble; try 0.4 to merge stacked bubbles.
.TP
.B --force
Recompute even if current grouping is cached.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo import [OPTIONS] PATH SOURCE
Import page images from a folder or CBZ/ZIP archive (originals never modified).
.RS
.TP
.B --order
Page ordering strategy.
.TP
.B --manifest
Ordering manifest (one filename per line); implies --order manifest.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo init [OPTIONS] PATH
Create a new mfo project.
.RS
.TP
.B --name
Project name (defaults to the directory name).
.TP
.B --source, -s
Source language code.
.TP
.B --target, -t
Target language code.
.TP
.B --direction
Reading direction.
.TP
.B --config, -c
TOML config file.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo models list
List the known optional models and whether each is cached, missing, or library-managed.
.TP
.B mfo models path
Show the directory optional model weights are cached in (set MFO_MODEL_DIR to change it).
.TP
.B mfo models pull [OPTIONS] NAME
Fetch a downloadable asset into the model cache; explain how to provision managed ones.
.RS
.TP
.B --url
Override the download URL for a downloadable asset.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo ocr [OPTIONS] PATH
Recognize text on detected regions (default engine manga-ocr — install with mfo[ocr]).
.RS
.TP
.B --engine
OCR engine to use.
.TP
.B --reuse-detection, --no-reuse-detection
Reuse text recognized during detection (e.g. by 'paddle-rec') instead of re-running OCR; --no-reuse-detection recognizes everything with --engine.
.TP
.B --force
Re-run OCR even if a current result is cached.
.TP
.B --jobs, -j
Process this many pages concurrently (0 = auto/CPU count). Does not change results.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo ocr-correct [OPTIONS] PATH
Suggest LLM corrections for low-confidence OCR as alternatives (opt-in; off the core path).
.RS
.TP
.B --corrector
OCR corrector adapter (MFO_AI_* / MFO_API_* env).
.TP
.B --threshold
Only correct spans whose confidence is below this.
.TP
.B --max-alternatives
Corrected readings to propose per span.
.TP
.B --force
Re-run even if a current result is cached.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo order [OPTIONS] PATH
Infer reading order for detected regions (offline, column-aware; RTL/LTR — FR-16/17/18).
.RS
.TP
.B --direction
Reading direction (defaults to the project's).
.TP
.B --panels, --no-panels
Refine order with best-effort panel detection (reads page images — FR-18).
.TP
.B --force
Recompute even if a current order is cached.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo preprocess [OPTIONS] PATH
Build normalized analysis derivatives for imported pages (originals untouched).
.RS
.TP
.B --grayscale
Normalize to grayscale instead of RGB.
.TP
.B --max-dim
Downscale analysis derivative to this longest edge.
.TP
.B --denoise
Apply a denoising filter.
.TP
.B --deskew
Estimate and correct page skew.
.TP
.B --force
Recompute even if a current derivative is cached.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo preset apply PATH STORE_PATH NAME
Apply a series preset to a project: set style, link glossary, set render config (SG-4).
.TP
.B mfo preset list STORE_PATH
List the presets in a series-preset store by name.
.TP
.B mfo preset remove STORE_PATH NAME
Remove a preset from a series-preset store by name.
.TP
.B mfo preset save [OPTIONS] STORE_PATH NAME
Define or replace a named series preset (matched by name).
.RS
.TP
.B --style
Translation register (FR-25).
.TP
.B --glossary
Shared series-glossary store to link when applied (8.5).
.TP
.B --pad
Render: grow each masked box by this many px.
.TP
.B --border
Render: width (px) of the background-sampling ring.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo render [OPTIONS] PATH
Mask/remove source text per page into a reversible masked layer (offline; FR-31/32/33).
.RS
.TP
.B --pad
Grow each region by this many px to catch text edges.
.TP
.B --border
Width (px) of the ring sampled to estimate background.
.TP
.B --force
Re-mask even if a current result is cached.
.TP
.B --jobs, -j
Process this many pages concurrently (0 = auto/CPU count). Does not change results.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo review [OPTIONS] PATH
Launch the local web review editor (FR-36; §13).
.RS
.TP
.B --host
Host to bind to. Use 0.0.0.0 to share on the LAN for review (SG-8).
.TP
.B --port
Port to serve on.
.TP
.B --token
Require this shared token on every API request (recommended when not on localhost). Reviewers open the editor at /?token=<token>.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo run [OPTIONS] PATH
Run the processing pipeline.
.RS
.TP
.B --stage
Run only this pipeline stage.
.TP
.B --from
Run from this stage and everything downstream.
.TP
.B --to
Run up to and including this stage.
.TP
.B --force
Re-run stages even if their inputs are unchanged.
.TP
.B --jobs, -j
Process this many pages concurrently (0 = auto/CPU count). Does not change results.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo sample [OPTIONS] PATH
Generate a small synthetic sample dataset for an end-to-end trial run (§21).
.RS
.TP
.B --pages
How many sample pages to generate.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo sfx [OPTIONS] PATH
Classify SFX regions and attach transliterations; set how SFX renders (offline; SG-5).
.RS
.TP
.B --mode
How to handle SFX at render: 'render' (translate like dialogue — default), 'transliterate' (typeset a romanization), or 'skip' (leave original SFX art alone).
.TP
.B --classifier
SFX classifier adapter (offline 'heuristic').
.TP
.B --transliterator
Transliterator adapter (offline 'kana').
.RE
.TP
.B mfo status [OPTIONS] PATH
Show project info, per-stage progress, and where confidence is low (I-4).
.RS
.TP
.B --threshold
Confidence below which a region is low.
.RE
.TP
.B mfo translate [OPTIONS] PATH
Translate units with context/glossary/style, offline (Argos default — mfo[translate]).
.RS
.TP
.B --translator
Translator: 'argos' (offline default), 'api' (OpenAI-compatible; MFO_API_* env), or 'deepl' (MFO_DEEPL_API_KEY).
.TP
.B --style
Translation register (FR-25).
.TP
.B --force
Re-translate even if a current result is cached.
.TP
.B --jobs, -j
Process this many pages concurrently (0 = auto/CPU count). Does not change results.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MFO_MODEL_DIR
Directory optional model weights are cached in (default ~/.cache/mfo/models).
.TP
.B MFO_DETECTOR_MODEL_URL
Download URL for the ONNX detector weight (used by `mfo models pull`).
.TP
.B MFO_API_KEY, MFO_API_URL, MFO_API_MODEL
OpenAI-compatible translation/assist adapter config.
.TP
.B MFO_DEEPL_API_KEY, MFO_DEEPL_API_URL
DeepL translation adapter config (opt-in).
.TP
.B MFO_AI_KEY, MFO_AI_URL, MFO_AI_MODEL
AI assist/OCR-correction adapter config (falls back to MFO_API_*).
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <project>/manifest.json
Human-readable project header (id, languages, config, page order).
.TP
.B <project>/project.db
SQLite store: regions, OCR, translations, edits, renders, history, assignments.
.TP
.B ~/.cache/mfo/models
Default cache for optional model weights (override with MFO_MODEL_DIR).
.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation: README.md and docs/USER_GUIDE.md in the mfo distribution.
.SH AUTHOR
mfo contributors.
